All right, this is one that's overlooked.
And I yell at people about it all the time
cuz I think it's the most obvious, but
I don't think people just don't look at
themselves the way that companies look
at themselves, so they don't do it.
Add tracking, implement Google Analytics
or a similar tool to track visits,
clicks and
user behavior on your portfolio website.
This the one thing that everybody
at RedCircle has been yelled at
about at least once, because they have
not done this, they're like, well,
I didn't think it was a big deal.
My question to you is, if you do not know
when people are coming to your website,
how long they're staying on your website,
when they're bouncing off your website.
How are you gonna get
the understanding of what to fix?
You don't know what's going on,
you don't have any data.
We don't have anywhere to start
on the process of where we're
triaging everything else on your
journey to get a job, right?
This is why it's very important for
me like yoh, get tracking, add tracking,
you have a contact form,
add tracking to the Contact Form button.
Any button they have, I want a tracker on
it because I wanna know when they click
that button,
I wanna know if they click that button.
I wanna know, do they play with
the dark mode on your portfolio?
I wanna know if they click
your social media links.
We need as much data as we want to,
cuz we wanna know, okay,
why haven't you gotten a job?
I can't answer that question if I
don't know are people even going to
your website.
I don't know, right?
If I was to look at my GitHub README,
and I was, okay,
you have 2,000 people have looked,
so why aren't you have a job?
Let's see why they haven't done that.
That's why I have tracking even
on my GitHub README profile,
cuz I wanna know how many
people are looking at me?
Have I done something bad?
Usually when that happens I've done
something popular or I've done something
horrible [LAUGH] and I'm like,
okay, which one have I done, right?
I don't remember doing anything so
let me make sure.
But that's what I want
first thing you all,
first thing you do your portfolio's add
tracking, that's why I have it up so high.
You have to add tracking
on your portfolios.
Another very, very important thing
that I do not see on portfolios that
everybody gets yelled at by me at
least once cuz it grinds my gears.
Add a form on your portfolios,
I cannot state this enough.
Add a form on your portfolios.
The reason why you wanna add a form
on your portfolios is that you don't
want to lose the information chain
of the potential hiring partner or
hiring manager that's on your website.
What happens when you have a link or
your email or mail to whatever,
something pops up,
everybody's working remote from home.
Little kid comes in asks daddy or
mommy to go and
look at a macaroni dinosaur
that they have made.
Next thing you know,
they're looking at the dinosaur,
they see a mess that the dog has made.
They're cleaning the mess of the dog,
they're looking the clock,
it's almost time to feed the baby.
Now they're making dinner their
significant others came home or
the other kids came home now you
have to deal and triage that.
And guess what, now this person has
forgotten what they're even doing on your
website, why they have this pop up
there of this email on your form and
they're, you know what,
it's 8 o'clock at night, I don't care.
They're gonna close it and
you just lost a potential job, right?
The contact form is right
there on your website.
They can sit it there.
They can fill it out right then and there.
They can go on their lives, someone
interrupts them, it's still right there.
They're like, I was gonna say something
about this, it's always there.
You don't want to send them anywhere
else when you're trying to get that
information.
And you also wanna be able to control it,
because guess what?
If they fill out that form, they're
giving you their email as well, right?
So now, you can control
the communication flow, right?
And it's a piece of data.
Now you have that data that you can
track and even more, all right?
This is how many people
have hit my website.
It's how many people have actually
gone through the process of finishing
out the contact form of my website.
Now, all right, if I have a week where
I'm like, okay, 175 people have hit
my website, but only 20 people have asked
to my contact form, what am I doing?
I have data now to see
what do I need to do
to get that number from initial
contact on my website to actually
filling out my contact form to
reach out to me higher, right?
These are data things so
you can start using, I guess,
forensics to start triaging
your own problems, right?
When you're trying to figure out why
you're not getting the call back or
how many people are not getting enough
callbacks, things of that, right?
Yes, sir.
>> I have a couple of
questions on the form.
And it's basically kind of around
spamming and security checks.
What do you kinda recommend for that?
>> Well, Netlify Forms they
do great with their forms and
making sure their forms are protected.